You guys in this video we're going to be working on the category's widget here on the left.
Right now it's just a static.
HTML on the wanted list.
So what we want to do is in the back and if we go to actually you know what we haven't even enabled
widgets yet so we have to do that first in order to use widgets.
We have to include the the initialization code in our functions not P2P files so let's go to functions
P2P and we're going to go down to the bottom here and let's see we have to specify the locations.
So I will say widget locations and then function we'll call it in knit widgets and that's going to take
an ID and then what we want to do is say register or sidebar.
Now this is a WordPress function that you want to you want to use when you're creating any kind of widget
position even though it's said sidebar it doesn't have to be in the sidebar.
In our case it is but it doesn't have to be.
All right so what we want to do in here is put in an array.
So we have to give it a name which will be a bar and an ID
which will be side bar lower case.
Right.
And then we're going to add action.
OK.
The hook we want is
widgets in that case.
And then of course we want to put in the function we just created which is that widgets.
All right now we still have to register them so we're going to say register widgets we're only going
to have just the side sidebar in this particular template.
So we want function that's a custom
register widgets
and we want to call register widget
.
OK.
So what we're doing here is we're going to use the categories widget but we're going to we're going
to take it in and create a custom version of it and put it in our temple in our theme folder.
All right so in here will say W.P. underscore and widget underscore categories score custom line and
then we need to add action.
Same thing is going to be widgets and that's when we want this to run.
And then we want this in here.
So let's save that.
Now we need to do is in our photogenic theme foliar we're going to create a folder called Widgets.
Okay.
And then inside there we're going to create a new file and we're going to save this as class dash W.P.
dash widget
dash categories and Dot ph P.
OK.
And now we're going to do is we're going to go into the core widgets folder which is in the W.P. includes
folder.
OK and then there's the widgets folder we're going to open that and then we want the categories widget
right here.
And what I'm going to do is just copy everything in it and then paste it into the file that we created
.
OK.
Now we do want to change the class name remember in our functions file we called it this right here
.
WP widgets categories custom.
So that's what we want to hear.
All right.
We're going to save that now in order to use this we have to include this file in our functions file
.
So let's go to the top here.
And the reason that I'm doing this I probably should have told you before is because I knew I want to
be able to style it this way.
All right.
Because if we don't if we don't edit this file and add the correct class it's not going to look like
this.
OK.
Actually you know what let's go ahead and just.
Well let me do this first.
So in functions we want to say require of wants
and I will say widgets slash class dasht WP
widget categories dot ph P.
OK so let's save that and then let's go into our admin area and now you should be able to go to parents
and then you should see a widgets item okaying and see we have our Sidebar.
So we're going to bring categories over
and click save.
And then let's go to our front end.
Oh we didn't we didn't put the placeholder in there yet.
So we need to go into our dog pee pee and where we have this unordered list right here we're going to
actually just get rid of that.
And I'm just going to paste this in.
OK so this is how we can add a widget to our code.
First thing we're doing is checking for what we're saying is active sidebar the name sidebar.
If it is then we're going to go ahead and call dynamic sidebar and we want the sidebar position.
OK this could actually be anything you want it to be but in our case we named it sidebars.
Let's save that and it's going reload.
And there we go there's the categories widget.
All right if I click on it on one of these it's going to work OK.
So it's showing us the images images that are in that particular category.
OK.
So you can see that the appearance of it did change.
That's why we need to put it in our own file here to edit because you never want to edit any of the
core widget files.
So just to make sure that this is the that it's actually reading it from this file.
Let's go ahead and change something actually you we're going to do is get rid of the title.
I don't want to have the title.
So right here I'm going to just comment this out.
All right we'll save that reload and I can see that the title is gone.
Next thing we want to do is add our class.
So we need to find where the UL starts which is right here and what we want to do is just add class
equals W3 to dash you well right now I'll save that and go and reload.
And now it looks like it did before and it works.
All right.
And the last thing I want to do is I want a link at the top here that says all photos so we can go back
to just seeing all of the photos.
So we're going to go actually we're going to go right under that well and let's put an ally.
OK so this is going to go to slash and then whatever whatever your folders called where NWP themes
Let's see.
And then here we're going to say all photos
reload and now we have an all photos link and we can now go back.
Now one other thing I want to do is take care of this top this margined right here another reason that
it's like this is because it's making room for the admin bar which isn't showing in order for that to
show we actually have to call W.P. Forder inside of our FOTR files so let's go there and we're just
going to say THP W.P. underscore Forder.
OK we'll save that.
Reload and now you can see we have our Agyeman bar.
And of course this only shows two people that are logged in as an admin.
Now the very last thing I want to do is make this search part functional.
OK right now if we put something in here and I press Enter it's not doing anything.
So we know that that's in the header file so let's go there.
And right now we just have just a simple input.
We actually need to turn this into a form so we're going to put form tags around it
.
We're going to put in a method which is just going to be get a method get and then we need to have an
action
in the action and we're going to put in some ph p tags and we want to echo.
I'm going to say escape you RL and then side there we're going to use the whole New R L function.
And here we just want to pass a parameter of slash
and that should do it.
One last thing we should give this input give it a name of apps
for search.
OK.
So we'll save that 3 load and in here let's say photo to enter and you can see it's giving us photo
to see photo 3.
And if we just put it in photo it's going to give us all of them.
All right.
Well actually one of them isn't.
I thought we had six.
Which ones are we missing.
I must not have named it correctly or it's set to only give us 5.
Oh OK so one of them might put post four.
OK so I'm just going to change that back to Frodo.
OK.
So that's the search widget.
And that's the category widget.
OK the last thing we need to do is the single page.
OK so we'll get to that in the next video.